1. Assuming that this question means absolute, not relative change, the biggest increase in unemployment is experienced by Spain (12%). Assuming the opposite, it's Ireland (160% change)

Japan experienced the lowest (positive) increase in unemployment (~+1%)

2. This data fails to include several factors:
 - People who have given up looking for work
 - Hidden Unemployment:
 	- People who have part time jobs but want full time jobs, and overqualified people (Doctors of Physics serving Starbucks Coffee, for example)
 - People employed in informal markets (Drug running and such things) which are not included in the official data

3. Ceteris Paribus, a forward shift of AD from a recovery will increase the real output demanded and supplied, shifting the equilibrium closer towards the full employment level of output, which will result in more employment as firms require greater quantities of labour to match the increased demand for goods and services.

4. Jobless recovery is a recovery that involves economic growth but while retaining or increasing its unemployment level. This may be dangerous, as the increasing output level indicates a healthy economy, providing a false sense of security and progress and concealing a diminishing quality of life for the citizens of a country. It is also unstable, as the greater unemployment reduces aggregate demand, as no one can afford to purchase the increased output, which will eventually cause a collapse.

5. Using the text and your knowledge of economics, discuss the dilemma faced
by governments.

Fiscal policy is the set of policies set by a government regarding taxation rates and government spending. The state of unemployment is being both out of work and actively seeking work, given one's ability to do so (age is appropriate). The unemployment rate is derived from this, being the percentage of unemployed labourers in the total labour force, that is the total population of people able to work in an economy.

According to the text, the government faces an almost paradoxical choice between cutting down on spending and increasing spending to support job creation and maintenance.

Governments can choose to allocate some spending, as part of their fiscal policy, towards reducing unemployment. They can spend money on job finding and training programs to both increase the number of people able to take on the jobs available in the current labour market, and to help pair those looking for jobs with employers who utilize their specific skillsets. This will directly increase the aggregate demand, which is the total spending on all goods and services produced in an economy at a given time and price level, because all spending by governments factors into aggregate demand. The decreased unemployment rate may also raise aggregate demand further as employed people have more discretionary income, and thus spend more, than employed people, so increasing the number of employed people should national spending. In the short run, this is a good solution to temporarily fix the issue of low employment, though it is rather inefficient. Government spending directly done to decrease unemployment is an interventionist policy and requires very careful management so as to not overspend or spend ineffectively. Altering the equilibrium of a whole nation will require massive government expenditures, which will take away from spending on other critical domains such as healthcare or public works, and can be untenable to sustain in the long run. 

As previously stated, government spending on unemployment reduction is a complex task for governments to undertake. They face heavy criticism for overspending, which is added to by employment programs. The problems with this spending are many. The opportunity cost, or the cost of the next best mutually exclusive alternative, is significant for governements spending large amounts of revenue on employment programs instead of on other public projects. There will be a time lag between the expenditure and its effect, as employment programs must be designed and executed over a long period of time, and it is unlikely that the effects of this spending will be immediate, which can contribute further to the percieved impotence of the government. Another significant problem is the concept of crowding out, shown in figure 17.7 (Blink Dorton Textbook). Crowding out suggests that an increase in budget deficits by borrowing money (loanable funds) for use in employment programs can raise interest rates as demand for a limited supply of loanable funds shifts from D1 to D2, resulting in a lower investment from I2 to I1. The impact of this is that firms will decrease their production and shift the aggregate demand backwards, resulting in further unemployment. Instead of fixing the problem, this spending has now caused even greater unemployment. 

An alternative approach would be to use expansionary fiscal policy to increase the aggegate demand indirectly, using instead market forces to increase employment. If the government decreases corporate taxes, corporations will have more revenue left over to expand their production and hire more workers, thus decreasing unemployment. This is a shift of aggregate demand forward, such that the equilibrium real output increases, increasing aggregate demand and further pressuring firms to hire more workers to match this increased demand for output. This policy could be used alone, or with spending on employment programs to mitigate its negative impacts. This may have the negative effect of less government revenue from corporate taxes, though this problem is mitigated in part by the greater number of employed workers who pay income taxes (unemployed people don't pay income taxes).

Governments face an difficult problem when deciding how to deal with unemployment. Through direct spending in employment programs, they may cause more harm and increase unemployment in the long run, while running large benefit deficits with delayed effects. This method is analogous to putting a bandage on a gaping arterial wound, seeking to repair a problem by mitigating its symptoms rather than the problem itself. A more effective approach is a market based attempt, seeking to indirectly increase production and thus employment through manipulation of corporate taxation rates. Though this can still have negative effects, it is generally less harmful to stakeholders and more effective in the long run as it triggers a feedback loop of further employment, and its control is more precise than with spending on employment programs, whose effects are unpredictable. 