1. According to Frye, how do popular conventions impact our daily lives (Give examples, eg. who or what are beatniks?)

Frye postulates that popular convention acts as an invisible force towards normalization. It shapes our perception of regularity and normalcy, beauty, and truth. That which we find outside of popular convention is seen frequently as unusual, unnatural or even repulsive. The only exception is that of things that fit into another sub-convention that is, while different from popular convention, a sufficiently renowned to not draw too much dislike. These alternate conventions are grouped into cliques, like those subcultures of goths, nerds, hipsters, jocks and other such groupings as seen in popular media.

2. How are popular and literary conventions distinguished in this lecture (as compared with other lectures?)

Popular and literary conventions are distinguished in this lecture on the basis of their magnitudes, as opposed to their content and patterns. Literary convention is often more subtle and refined than popular culture, and while predominant literary conventions exist (plot/character tropes), they tend to be used more sparsely and in greater variety than how they exist in life, especially as literary convention is to be as unlike life as possible, causing a diminishing of the convention of using convention.

3. Do you agree with Frye that we are often quick to accept as fact something that we know to be nonsense? What's another name for this phenomenon? Explain some of these nonsensical demands that are made upon our imaginations? How does this idea tie in with Fry's suggestion that a poet may not be the best person to approach for worldly advice? Does he believe that writers can be adversely affected by adherence to their dominant conventions?

i) Some words are: Gullibility, Fallibility, Credulity
j) These nonsensical demands often require the suspension of belief, where perhaps people act in thoroughly nonsensical crazy ways (Why the hell are you not going up the stairs and breaking them behind you and staying in the basement? There are zombies outside!)
k) Poets, as they are progenitors of this nonsense, are likely to return such foolishness when asked for advice as they have trouble distinguishing the real world and the world of their imagination, the idle sybarites.
l) Writers, in following convention, will become monotonous, and also begin to live their lives in such a way as to follow/pursue these conventions.

4. What does the statement "to bring anything really to reality to life in literature we cant be lifelike; we have to be literature-like" mean?

Lifelikeness in literature is highly undesirable. Instead, we must follow a different set of conventions, those as unlike life as possible, those that are called literature like.

5. How is prose used differently in ordinary life than in literature? In addition to what Frye says, give your own examples...

Prose in real life is functional. It is used in isolation, each word with direct meaning. Literature uses prose in composite, with the words as a whole creating an effect removed from them in isolation [sum of composite parts and so forth]. Example:
"Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date." - Part of sonnet 18
This is trying to express that the object being described is attractive, overwhelmingly so. This is poetry, not prose, but I take Frye's notion of literary prose to mean poetry.

6. What do you think Frye means when he says "in literature there's no such thing as a morally bad novel"? Do you agree?
Frye is repeating the notion of moral relativism, with respect to literature. He means that it is impossible to make a morally bad novel because the judgement of the moral effect of a piece of literature is dependent on the morality of the reader, which is by no means an objective representation. I agree with this, though there is an extent to which this is false - some things can be objectively morally bad, given the correct circumstances. Most of these things are instances of malfeasance, or actions with malicious intent.

7. Discuss Frye's distinction between the use of the imagination in science and literature. Is it consistent with what he said before? is it really true that "the world of literature is a world where there is no reality except that of the human imagination?"

Frye speaks of imagination in science as being functional, requiring it to pass a test of usefulness or plausability. It is mostly consistent with what he says in the first lecture, though in this one he seems to take imagination in science as being a reagent rather than a product. It is a switch of cause and effect. Whether or not the world of literature is a world where there is no reality except for the human imagination is true, insofar as the human imagination encapsulates everything really, the entirety of all human experiences, so it's more of a catch-all than anything.

8. What does Professor Frye mean when he says 'in literature we always seem to be looking either up or down. It's the vertical perspective that's important, not the horizontal one that looks out to life' ?

Frye states this to express that the literary experience involves itself with viewing the heights and depths of the human experience more than with comparing it with life. It will get you nowhere fast to only look at literature as a reflection of the world, instead it should be taken as a bright or dark mirror, an augmented version of reality.

9. Discuss the two halves of literary experience. Distinguish Frye's accompanying observation that "there are moral standards in literature after all" from the answer you gave in #6

The upper half of literary experience involves itself with augmenting the joys and pleasures of the human experience while the lower half shows the inverse. The moral standards that exist are not for criticizing literature or categorizing it as being malfeasant or benign but for revealing the extent of the human experience, to categorize literature into the two halves.

10. What is the connection with dreams in literature, as set out in the end of this lecture? Explain the final paragraph.
Dreams are deeply embedded within the creation and study of literature. Using dreams as a proxy for physical manifestations of absolute good and the bad, the upper half of literature brings us to the most pleasant dreams, whereas the bottom brings us to the darkest of nightmares. There is a certain parity here, and an incompleteness if one exists without the other.

The final paragraph of this text explains the true role of a critic. He is not superior to a poet, but rather knowledgeable about poetry. The critic interprets each piece of literature as part of the whole of their experience with literature, a range of human emotion with infinite depth and scope. The allusion to revelation and the apocalypse indicate literature's role as a harbinger of all that is and all that is yet to come, and criticism brings that message into the light, if only to cast some small part of this revelation into concrete meaning. Criticism exists not to judge literature, but instead to understand it.

I think this last line about a last judgement of mankind is a little melodramatic, and the references to apocalypse (that good will triumph over evil in the bible) to be counterproductive as that isn't what Frye is trying to say. A last judgement of mankind is perhaps referring to literary criticism, in its purest and most perfected form, to be able to view literature holistically, and thus the entirety of the human imagination and humans as a seamless whole. This is the basis on which the last judgement will be made, so a perfect criticism will parallel the final judgement.
